[birds twittering]
[rock music playing
to the tune of "Achy Breaky Heart"]
[singing]
[music fades]
[Matt] The best home bakers
from across the country
applied in their thousands.
Just 12 have made it…
-Oh, blimey, here we go.
-[in sing-song voice] Good luck, everyone.
…to our bubble.
[Maggie] When you're telling people
that you're going away,
absolutely nobody's guessed
where I'm going.
What's wrong with my cakes?
[Crystelle] My sister
was like, "Just apply."
I was like, "Why did you
make me apply, I got through!"
When we look in the tent,
it's the feeling you get
when you walk for the first time
into the Sistine Chapel,
[Matt] Every aspect
of their baking skills will be tested…
-On your marks.
-…in 30…
-Get set.
-…brand-new challenges.
Bake!
-We're on the way.
-[Jürgen] Good luck in there.
My German brain gets active
when I make sweet stuff.
[George sing-song] More chocolate.
I just enjoy feeding people,
because that's what Greek people do.
[Matt] Everything they create
will be judged by Prue Leith…
Don't wanna get emotional.
That's so delicious.
…and Paul Hollywood.
-[Noel] Don't look into his eyes.
-I'll stare him down.
[chuckling] Don't stare Paul down.
-[producer] Worried about the judges?
-No.
[Noel] We begin with incredible cakes…
-Oh, my God, that's going in my eye.
-[Maggie] Come on.
…with a delicious childhood favourite…
[Maggie] Because they're mini,
you've got to get it really tight.
That's panicked me.
…one of the all-time teatime classics…
[Chigs] It doesn't wanna come off.
This is a joke.
-It's very gooey.
-[whimpers]
…and mind-bending showstoppers…
I feel sick.
…that defy the laws of gravity.
-[Chigs] To me…
-[both] To you.
The cake is on the move.
-To me.
-To you.
-I'm so scared it's going to fall.
-Breathe in.
Worst thing that could happen
is that I will be walking towards judges
and I'll trip over
and go headfirst into my own cake.
-[clattering]
-[Freya] Oh, my gosh.
[Noel] Oh, no.
[theme music playing]
[Noel] Once again, we've pitched our tent
in the stunning grounds of Down Hall.
And our fresh bubble of bakers
are about to face
three cake-based challenges,
after which
one of them will be crowned Star Baker
and another
will have to leave the competition.
-Bakers, welcome to the tent.
-[Noel] This is so exciting.
-The 2021 winner is actually in this tent.
-Whoa, how about that?
By the same token, the first person
to go home is also in this tent.
-[contestants chuckling]
-It's none of you, don't worry. It's Paul.
[contestants chuckling]
For your first Signature Challenge,
the judges would like you to bake
12 decorative mini rolls.
These need to be your take on mini rolls,
so the type of sponge, the flavours
and the fillings is entirely up to you.
-You have two hours.
-On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake!
Here we go.
It's lovely to start it actually.
This is really happening.
It's so shocking. It's not settled in yet.
I think I just need
to put myself back in my kitchen
and get on with it.
I feel sick. Why did I apply?
What is wrong with me?
The mini roll packs a punch
in such a small little cake.
Think of the sponge, think of the filling
and think of the overall look.
They have to be very elegant,
perfect swirl of filling inside,
and most of all, they must be delicious.
If they get their timing wrong,
there will be issues.
Because as they put their filling
into a warm sponge,
it will collapse, ooze out.
It's the first time the bakers
have really got to impress us
and really show us what they can do.
-Good morning.
-[Crystelle] Good morning.
-Hello, Crystelle.
-Hi. Hi. How are you doing?
I want to know about your mini rolls.
It's a chai-flavoured sponge.
So I've got jaggery.
Jaggery is an unrefined sugar
and it's actually from Goa.
So my grandma gave me
loads of jaggery from Goa,
so I'm putting that in my sponge.
[Matt] Crystelle is
a client relationship manager
and lives in North London
with her parents and sisters.
But she's not been able
to see her Nana Julie
and give her a hug for over a year.
-[Julie] Bake, bake, bake, Crystelle.
-[laughs]
[Matt] Nana Julie's jaggery will sweeten
her coconut and chai tea mini rolls
flavoured with cloves, ginger,
cinnamon and cardamom.
That's strong, punchy flavours
for a mini roll.
[Prue] What is so lovely
is the idea of coconut and chai.
I've never had those two together.
That might be wonderful.
-[Paul] Good luck.
-Thank you.
[Prue] Good luck.
[Noel] Crystelle's not the only baker
paying tribute to their family heritage.
I am from the Black Forest,
and, er, black forest gateaux
has always been a favourite.
[Noel] Jürgen works in IT.
And with his wife, Sofia,
and son, Benjamin,
loves to play his trombone
to serenade the Brighton waterfront
along with his pet rabbit, Humphrey.
Great.
[Noel] His classic black forest mini roll
will have a chocolate genoise sponge
filled with kirsch cream
and sour cherries.
-How are you, Jürgen?
-Hi, Matt.
I'm very well, thank you.
-You're a musical man.
-Yes.
I thought you might appreciate
er, me singing the theme
to The Flintstones in German.
-I would.
-[Matt] Here we go.
[singing "Meet the Flintstones" in German]
-What do you think?
-Great. I haven't heard that in ages.
-I translated it myself.
-Mmm.
I can't quite remember the text.
-Well…
-But…
I wouldn't call it a text.
So my theme is a black forest mini roll.
I'm worried about Jürgen doing it.
I think he has family
from the Black Forest.
So he knows his stuff.
[Matt] Tom and his family
are from Maidstone in Kent,
and run a model railway business.
[Tom] People waiting for the train.
[Matt] He'll fill his black forest
mini rolls with a cherry jam
before coating them
in thick dark chocolate.
[Noel] Hi, Tom.
You seem like you're enjoying yourself.
If I'm going home week one,
I need to enjoy myself.
You're not going home week one.
You've got a good vibe,
and it's gonna make it happen for you.
-Awesome. Thank you very much.
-I sound like a tarot reader.
-I didn't wanna say it.
-[both laugh]
If someone says you've got a "good vibe,"
that means you're not good at baking.
"Vibe's good, your cake is tasteless."
I am not copying Tom.
I am doing my own black forest.
[Matt] Wild swimming enthusiast Amanda
is a mum of two
and works as a detective
for the Metropolitan Police.
Not too cold, but cold enough.
[Matt] She's adding a coffee twist
to a squad of cherry-topped mini rolls
that should set her apart
from her black forest rivals.
I thought I'd make them
standing up like little soldiers.
-Okay.
-"Cherry soldiers," I'm gonna call them.
And it's going to stand up?
-They did stand up at home.
-[both chuckle]
[Noel] Unless the bakers create a sponge
that's light and soft…
My sponge is a genoise,
and it's getting beautiful volume.
…their mini rolls won't roll.
I am making carrot cake mini rolls.
[Noel] And Rochica is risking
an unconventional batter.
I have spelt flour for my dad.
Because these rolls were inspired by him.
[Noel] Rochica works in HR,
and loves to escape the home office
to see her nieces and nephews
with her dad, Colin.
[Rochica laughing] Dad!
[Noel] Cinnamon and vanilla cream
will fill Colin's favourite
spelt flour carrot cake mini rolls.
He really enjoys my bakes
with spelt flour in it.
He's quite health-conscious.
[Matt] Whilst Rochica is rolling
with an unusual flour…
[Maggie] One, two, three…
…Maggie has decided not to use any at all.
[Maggie] …nineteen, 20.
[Matt] Choosing instead
a tricky meringue-based batter.
This is a very dull time.
Seventeen, 18, 19, 20.
It's 20 seconds between every spoonful.
[Noel] Sports fanatic Maggie
is a retired midwife from Poole in Dorset,
and has been baking for over 60 years.
I was never ever going to reach that.
I still think I'm 20.
[Noel] She plans to top her light,
flourless chocolate orange mini rolls
with heavenly milk chocolate angels.
[Prue] It's quite a difficult sponge
to do, a flourless one.
Because it's very moussey and it's sticky.
-But it's very delicious when it's right.
-That's right.
Have you practised this. Prue?
Erm, Maggie.
-Now don't you start.
-Were you separated at birth?
-[Paul] I think you'll do well…
-[chuckling] We can sort him out.
[Matt] Whilst Prue…
I mean, Maggie is going flourless,
Freya is going dairy-free.
[Freya] So, because these are vegan,
this is aquafaba
that I've just whisked up.
-Are you using aquafaba for the meringue?
-[Freya] Yeah.
-And it's all the vegan.
-All vegan. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
-[Paul] And have you practised this?
-[Freya] Oh, yeah, like, 25 times.
Yeah. Yeah, I found it very stressful.
'Cause, with no egg, it's really difficult
to get it to roll without cracking.
[Matt] Nineteen-year-old Freya
is a psychology student from Scarborough.
She went vegan 18 months ago.
[chuckling] That is a very big circle.
[Freya] Honestly, all I do
is get insults around here.
[Matt] Her lemon and raspberry mini rolls
will be filled
with a vegan lemon meringue buttercream.
I have tried about 15 Swiss roll recipes.
Er, cried at about 12.
I think I've actually only ever
done these in the time once.
Here we go.
[Matt] The sooner
the mini roll sponges are baked,
the longer they'll have to cool.
-We're on the way.
-[Crystelle] Please be good to me.
-Nine minutes is the plan.
-Ten minutes and counting.
[Matt] If the bakers attempt
to fill a warm sponge…
I'm starting to panic 'cause I hear
everyone putting stuff in the oven.
And I've got nothing.
…their first-ever Signature bake
will end in collapse.
Oh, my God, my oven door was open.
[sighs]
[Matt] George works with carers and adults
with learning disabilities
in North London.
He loves to recreate the Greek Cypriot
bakes he grew up with at home
with his wife, Oz,
his kids Nasis, Alarah and Ilias,
and their dog, Ely.
Who's gonna do the washing up?
[whines]
[Matt] His milk chocolate mini rolls
will be filled with a hazelnut bavarois.
[George] While the oven's warming up,
I'll move on to something else
because I need to.
[Matt] George isn't the only one
running late.
Why're you at this stage
and not further down the line?
[Lizzie] Clearly, just a slow person.
There's a plan behind this pattern?
Yeah, so, it is meant to be a giraffe.
And they're based
on going to Chester Zoo with my family.
-You've got a dog, haven't you?
-[Lizzie] Yeah.
-What's your dog called?
-Prudence.
-Prudence?
-Yeah.
Well, I've got photos of youse all
on me mixer.
Paul, you've got a six-pack.
-I know.
-[laughs]
[Matt] Lizzie is from Liverpool,
and when she's not at home
baking with the judges,
she builds luxury cars for a living.
Her giraffe-print coffee sponge
will be rolled
around a tahini caramel filling.
Me and you have got
our wardrobes confused.
This could be an issue if I last
-more than a week.
-We could share clothes.
[Lizzie] I am a bit behind.
Don't worry about that so much.
I feel like it's going to look good.
You've got style.
Oh, have you seen me shoes?
-Ears and tail.
-[Noel] I do like these shoes.
Don't let anyone see how big my heels are.
I'm like Prince.
I take these off,
you would only see the top of my head.
I've got to go, because apparently,
you need to get on with some baking.
-This is a baking show. Good luck.
-[chuckling] See ya.
-Bakers…
-You are halfway through!
Can't be halfway.
The competition.
You slept through a couple of episodes.
-[laughs]
-[George] Straight in the oven.
I think I'll be able to breathe
once I've got that done.
Oh. That's my timer.
[Tom] Here we go.
Let's check this guy out.
Can't see, mind you. Oh.
[Matt] When baking
thin and fragile sponges…
It's a bit spongy, but I'd just like
another couple of minutes.
…every second counts.
No. One more minute.
[Matt] Just a fraction
too long in the oven…
It's coming out in about a minute.
…when rolled,
they'll crack and fall apart.
I'm now going to turn this out.
Careful, I don't wanna burn any of you.
-So do you enjoy baking?
-I've only been baking 12 months.
-So I'm a proper lockdown baker.
-Oh, my goodness.
[Matt] Chigs is a telephone
sales manager from Leicester.
And as well as baking,
lockdown has seen him rock climbing,
playing guitar, decorating his house
and cooking with his mum, Giotti.
His marble chocolate and vanilla sponge
will be filled
with a strawberry Chantilly cream.
The first year that I was a judge for,
the winner had only been baking
for six months.
-Oh, wow.
-It's not necessarily a handicap.
-Exactly.
-[Matt] In the last series,
the winner had only been baking
for 13 or 14 years.
Well, there you go then. [laughs]
I'm waiting on my sponges.
Helpless, aren't you? A sitting duck.
[Matt] Whilst the wait continues
for Lizzie and George,
with sponges cooling,
the rest of the bakers
still need to perfect their fillings.
You about to have a swig?
Is it that bad already?
No, this is the syrup.
That's the stuff you want to swig.
-That's the stuff.
-[Amanda] Yeah.
-[Noel] Are you drunk yet? I am.
-Are you?
-No, not really.
-Good on you.
You weren't sure there.
-I was just thinking, "Lucky you."
-[laughs]
[Matt] And Giuseppe's filling
is a taste of home.
I'm trying to translate Italian flavours
into whatever I'm putting together.
That's part of my heritage.
That's what I do best.
[Matt] Giuseppe works as an engineer
in Bristol,
and passes on
his Italian culinary heritage
to his three sons,
Alberto, Ricardo and Georgio.
[boy chuckles]
No, don't pull it,
we still have to eat it.
This is dinner, amore.
[Matt] He's filling
his almond and orange sponges
with ricotta cheese flavoured
with a potent orange blossom water.
Hopefully, balanced enough.
Not to blow anybody's heads off.
[Noel] But Jairzeno isn't holding back.
Twenty passion fruit
to make some passion fruit caramel.
[Noel] Originally from Trinidad,
Jairzeno is a finance manager
living in South London
with his partner, Graham,
and their greyhound, Maxie.
[Graham] Shall we find squirrels?
[Noel] His passion fruit
caramel buttercream
will fill a lime and chili sponge.
How far do you think
you can go in the competition?
Would I like to go all the way? Yes.
-You would?
-Yes.
-That's what I want to hear.
Don't you worry.
I'll take care of the rest.
-Oh? Okay.
-I'll take them out one by one. Okay?
Who do you want to go first?
Freya? That's harsh.
Wasn't expecting that.
-No. No comment.
-[laughs]
-Bakers, you have had half an hour.
-No, no, no, they've got half an hour.
-You've got half an hour left.
-[Tom] That makes more sense.
Lovely. Thank you very much.
[Noel] Same difference, isn't it?
-No.
-Oh.
That's panicked me. So I'm miles behind.
[George] I hope that these cool in time.
[Matt] As George and Lizzie
finally begin cooling…
Come on, come on. [grunts]
…for the rest of the bakers,
it's the moment of truth.
[Maggie] It's the orange buttercream,
I've hopefully cooled the sponges enough
so it won't melt.
[Jürgen] Cherries go on the edge.
As a child, if in any of the cafés
this filling was missing,
I was a very unhappy child.
That's a strong smell, Jürgen.
What is that?
-Kirsch syrup.
-[Chigs] Wow.
[sighs]
Compose myself.
[Maggie] Come on, just do it.
Because they're mini,
you've got to get it really tight.
[Noel] Paul and Prue have demanded
a perfectly-defined swirl.
[Jürgen] I tried to roll them like sushi.
We often make sushi at home.
[Noel] But if the sponge
is even a fraction overbaked…
-[Chigs] Come on.
-…it will split.
[Crystelle] If it cracks
then you don't get your perfect swirl.
[Tom] Not perfect, but whatever.
[sighs]
Trying to keep it all in one piece.
Swirl is coming out nicely.
-[Maggie] There's a swirl.
-Stay, stay, stay.
Oh, there is a crack. I'm gonna hide that.
A lot of cracking, so I'm covering them
to make them more attractive.
This is a fiddly bit. I do not like
doing equal measurements on anything.
We need a ruler. Anyone got a ruler?
This is the best tool of an engineer.
A ruler.
These should be
exactly eight centimetres each.
How long have we got?
Bakers, you've got 15 minutes
until the end of this challenge.
[exclaims dramatically]
We haven't got much time left.
It's a bit hotter than I'd like,
but I ain't got time.
-There you go.
-[exhales heavily]
[Lizzie] The sickness is setting in.
I feel like it's just hit me.
Like a slap in the face.
Aye, aye, aye. Come on, roll. [groans]
-[Noel] How are you?
-[George] All over the place.
-Are you?
-When you have disasters at home,
it doesn't really matter.
But here, the pressure's on.
I'm gonna leave you
because that looks really tricky.
-[George] Thanks.
-Use the Force.
Yeah, I will.
[Lizzie] The caramel's probably
going to be running out.
The coffee cream's gonna melt.
[groans]
You've come at the right moment
if you like chocolate.
-I do.
-This'll go all over those.
All right, here we go.
[Crystelle] This is what I call
covering up the cracks.
[Matt] Not too bad.
Covering the cracks up with chocolate
so they won't know any different.
[Giuseppe] I'm dipping one end.
I didn't want to coat it entirely
'cause I like to see the swirl.
Oh, man. They taste wicked.
But they look like…
[blender whirs]
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
Perfect. Should get there in five.
[Amanda] My soldiers are falling over.
[Crystelle] Covering the cracks round two.
-What are you doing? Is this baking?
-Yes. Stop it.
-Of course it's baking.
-You're just making these hairy.
Please help me, someone.
[sing-song] More chocolate.
A few minutes to go, people are flapping,
you're cool as a cucumber.
What's cucumber in Italian?
-[speaks Italian]
-You're cool as…
-Cucumber.
Now, little angels.
Oh! It's lost its body.
[Jürgen] My hands are too hot. [exclaims]
-Oh. Another broken angel.
-Oh, no.
You might just have to have one angel.
[Lizzie] There's caramel everywhere.
Stick some flowers on it,
and hopefully cover up all my sins.
[Amanda] Theses are very, very drunk.
The photos of me and me family
when we go to the zoo every Christmas.
[George] I'm shaking. I'm shaking.
How many seconds?
Bakers, you have one minute left.
[Crystelle] This is
my jaggery whipped cream.
[Chigs] This is me being fancy.
[Tom] Have some gooey mess.
Right. That will have to do.
Bakers, your time Is up.
[sighs in relief]
Can I walk out now?
[Lizzie] Ugh!
It's dripping on everyone's faces.
[Crystelle gasps] My ganache
is dripping off my stool.
-No!
-That's cake carnage.
Oh, no, the coconut on the floor.
My mum is gonna kill me.
She was like, "Crystelle, please be neat."
Oh, God.
[Matt] Our 12 new bakers
and their mini rolls
are about to face Paul and Prue
for the very first time.
-Hello, Maggie.
-Hello.
-[Prue] Still smiling, I see.
-[Maggie] One has to.
I wanted them all
to have a little angel on top,
but I'm afraid I must admit
to having the shakes.
They kept losing their wings.
[Prue] Well, one of them's got it.
The chocolate
is a little bit rough and ready.
[Paul] You got a nice little swirl
in there, actually.
-[Prue] I think your sponge is excellent.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Texture of it is lovely.
-Great flavour.
You couldn't eat a lot of it
because it is so rich.
-The cocoa content's quite high.
-Yes.
My husband would find this
far too much chocolate.
He'd like a milk chocolate.
-For heaven's sake.
-He likes adulterated chocolate.
This is pure.
-This is chocolate.
-[Prue] Dark.
Loving listening to you and Prue chat.
I've never felt more like
a chimney sweep in all my life.
[all laughing]
[in Cockney accent]
Lawks, come on, let's go, Paul.
[in normal voice] It's like
a Dickens novel.
There's a sort of fold in there,
not a swirl.
The bitterness from the sugar is perfect,
and the passion fruit
is absolutely delicious.
It is so worth the calories.
That is wonderful.
They are a bit uneven.
-I think they're a little bit drunk.
-[Prue] I don't think that's a swirl.
-[Amanda] No.
-[Prue] It's a blob.
[Paul] Cherry's not strong enough
'cause it's blended so much
with the little bit of coffee in there.
Nice lot of booze though.
I like the booze.
Not much of a mini roll.
[Prue] You know, it's not at all bad
because you have got a bit of a swirl.
-And the texture of the cake is lovely.
-Thank you very much.
But you're not getting enough
of the cherry coming through.
Well, they're pretty neat.
I think they look attractive.
[Paul] Let's see how they look inside.
Don't wanna look.
[Paul] There's not much
of a swirl in there, is there?
There's like, an abstract swirl.
I think maybe the cream
kind of hides the swirl.
-I have to tell you, it's delicious.
-Oh!
[Paul] I think you've got
a great blend of the spices,
but more so the cardamom
and the coconut together
work beautifully well.
My only complaint
is there's a touch too much jaggery.
-[Crystelle] Okay.
-It's too sweet.
That's absolutely fine.
I'll take that. [chuckles]
Too hot, bad timing, rushing…
-Maybe a bit of panic as well.
-[Paul] Mmm.
It's pudding.
-It's not cake.
-It's still warm.
And the whole thing's collapsed
'cause you put
a massive amount of chocolate.
There's a famous saying in Cyprus,
which you'll probably be
more than aware of,
Siga, siga.
-Yeah.
-[Prue] What does that mean?
-Slowly, slowly.
-Yeah, slowly, slowly.
[Prue] You've got a fairly good swirl.
I think the flavours are lovely.
It is a little stodgy.
Even with spelt in,
you've managed to overmix it.
-Oh, okay.
-It's too rubbery.
-There was a bit of a wind.
-Forest suffered a storm.
Black Forest is not entirely healthy.
[all laughing]
[Paul] A nice bit of a swirl in there.
You haven't over-sweetened the filling.
So you get that sour cherry.
-You're from the Black Forest?
-Yes.
Try some.
-What'd you think?
-I would buy it.
Why?
The balance between
cream and chocolate is right.
And you have enough sour cherry.
-And not sweet.
-[Prue] I agree.
-I agree entirely.
-[Jürgen] Thank you.
-[Paul] Just needs--
-Just judge your own cake.
I think it's very good.
-Well done.
-[Jürgen] Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done.
-[Noel] I'm gonna eat a bit.
[whispering] Black forest
from the Black Forest.
Mmm.
[Prue] I'm full of admiration for you
because on the few occasions
that I've tried to use aquafaba
instead of egg whites, takes ages.
Oh, yeah. It is a bit of a faff,
isn't it, really?
-[all chuckling]
-[Freya] I mean…
[Paul] Let's see if it is
worth it, shall we?
I like the nice tart flavour
of the raspberries.
And you've got a little hint
of lemon in there as well.
Cake is a little bit hefty.
-[Paul] That's got a lovely swirl.
-Thank you.
I like that the sponge is a little thicker
because it means it's risen more.
And the fresh strawberries
are just delicious.
They're giraffe-patterned, giraffe-esque.
And we could even go as far to say,
the caramel drips evenly.
-The sea lion in a bit of water.
-[contestants laughing]
Not the best-looking mini rolls I've seen.
There was obviously a rush.
The cream and the caramel's run out
'cause it's been warm when you've done it,
and then your flavours are all wrong.
It's down to the timing.
I bet you did better
when you were practising.
Yeah, but… Tent pressure, isn't it?
Goodness, Giuseppe.
That looks as neat as a pin.
Absolutely beautiful.
You've come up with something
that's very elegant.
Cuts lovely, classic, lovely swirl.
[Prue] That is a perfect swirl.
Classic almond cake with orange.
[Giuseppe] Yeah.
-It's my favourite kind of cake.
-Oh, good.
It's so delicate and it's so well-balanced
that it grows on you.
With every mouthful,
it's getting better and better.
I think your flavours are beautiful.
The orange blossom comes through,
and it's very delicate,
but it's enough there
to create great flavour
because ricotta carries
a little bit of flavour.
So between the two, it's perfect.
-[Prue] It's a triumph. Well done.
-Oh, God.
-Thank you, Giuseppe.
-Thank you.
[whispering] Well done. Amazing.
They look fantastic.
Let me recap.
"A triumph," "neat as a pin," "perfect…"
The only problem is that
there is only one way from here.
Paul made me eat my own cake and judge it…
Uh, crazy, crazy.
They said they look terrible.
Everyone knew that anyway.
The seepage was massive.
[Noel] Each week,
the bakers' second challenge
will be a mystery shrouded in gingham.
It's time for
your first-ever technical challenge,
which has been set for you
by the delightful Prue Leith.
Prue, any words of advice?
This is a really old-fashioned recipe,
and those of you who are under 35
may never have heard of it.
-[chuckles]
-[Prue] Don't panic.
Just read the recipe.
[Noel] As ever, this technical challenge
will be judged blind.
So we're going to ask these two poppets
to leave the tent.
Bye-bye!
So, for your first-ever
technical challenge,
Prue would like you to make
that teatime classic, the malt loaf.
Served with homemade butter on the side.
It should be rich and moist.
Like Paul Hollywood.
You have two hours, which doesn't seem
nearly enough, does it?
-On your marks…
-Get set…
[sing-song] Bake!
[Amanda] Malt loaf
is my absolute favourite. I love it.
Never made it, though.
Damn. I wish I'd made it.
[Matt] In the technical challenge,
the bakers are all given
identical ingredients
and the same pared-down recipe.
[Maggie] Prue said,
"under 35s won't know what it is."
Of course, all the under 35s said,
"Do you know what it is, Maggie?"
Of course I do.
I'm over 35. Well over 35.
So, in theory, I should know
what this looks like.
In reality,
I haven't got the faintest clue.
I've never had…
Er, what's it called?
[hesitates] Malt loaf?
So it's our first technical challenge,
and you set them a malt loaf.
[Prue] It's sticky, rich.
Nobody doesn't like a malt loaf.
[Paul] Where can they go wrong?
Because it's just a simple mix,
it's a little bit easier to undermix.
And so just take trouble to make sure
that you haven't got
any lumps of flour left in there.
And under-baking it,
it's likely to sink in the middle.
And overbaked is just too hard and dry.
That's perfect.
Nicely distributed fruit,
beautiful dark colour.
It just needs butter on it.
-[Paul] You got enough there, Prue?
-No.
-Gorgeous, isn't it?
-It reminds me of my nan.
When I was a kid going around there,
given a little piece of malt loaf
with butter on it.
Oh, judging them
is going to be hard, though.
[muffled] I can't talk.
I got my mouth full.
[imitates Paul]
[Jürgen] I'm feeling quite excited.
My wife asked me to make a tea loaf
years ago, and I never did.
So here I am.
"Tip the raisins and chopped prunes
into a microwave-safe bowl."
I'm just cutting the prunes.
I hate prunes.
[retches]
[Noel] If the bakers
leave the fruit in large chunks…
[Maggie] If I can keep these
the same size as the raisins,
it will probably be quite good.
…it could sink to the bottom
of their malt loaf.
[Amanda] It's a bit of guesswork here.
Rechopping them, 'cause clearly
they're not finely done enough.
Are these the sort of ingredients
you would bake with in Italy?
No. I love prunes, but on their own.
I've never put them in a cake.
Well, they keep you busy, you see.
[laughing] It does, it does.
I don't think I've ever actually seen
malt extract before.
Black treacle, 40 grams.
Another ingredient
I've never used in my life.
It doesn't want to come off. [chuckles]
This is a joke.
[exclaims]
Malt loaf?
-Gross.
-Don't like it?
I just don't really like
any of the smells.
[Noel] I think
when you present it to Paul,
just hold his mouth open
and drop in chunks.
-Like you're rearing a small ostrich…
-So, you don't want me to…
-I don't like ostriches.
-…that's fallen out of a nest.
You don't like ostriches or malt loaf?
An ostrich ran away with me on it.
-With you on it?
-As a child.
-You got on an ostrich?
-Yes.
[both laughing]
So we were in an ostrich farm.
It had a bag on its head.
-A bag?
-So, it was clearly unhinged.
-An unhinged ostrich.
-This is a dream.
There's an ostrich with a bag on its head.
This ostrich went… [screeching]
-[Noel] Went crazy.
-Crazy. Started to, like, run off.
And the ostrich's
runnin' around the pen with me.
-Wow.
-Horrendous, traumatised.
-This sounds like the best day ever.
-Does it?
"Combine the remaining ingredients
to form the cake batter."
[Matt] If the bakers undermix the batter…
-Just going all-in.
-[Maggie] Give it a good stir.
…lumps of inedible flour
will be left after baking.
[Amanda] It's not overly mixed,
but it's a nice gooey texture.
Fingers crossed it will come out okay.
But overmixing will create gluten,
leading to a tough, chewy loaf.
This doesn't look very promising,
now, does it?
How can this be baked into a cake?
[scoffs]
You can live off malt loaf, apparently.
-Can you really?
-Yes.
Don't look that up.
[Chigs] It's going in now.
[Freya] Oh, that is a lot
for this little cake tin, isn't it?
I might actually take a small amount out.
I hope I've made the right choice.
-Wish me luck.
-[timer beeps]
And they don't tell you
how long to cook things for.
Cheeky. I ain't got an idea
how long ago I gotta bake this for.
[timer beeping]
It's dark, so, how would you know
if it's overbaked?
I suspect that it's quite a long bake.
I put it in for 45 minutes.
I was gonna say 40 minutes,
but that maybe is a bit…
No, I don't think that's bold.
An hour to start with
and then check after an hour.
-[timer beeps]
-Let's see.
"Cut orange peel and ginger
into matchsticks."
"Add the sugar and water to the pan,
bring to a boil,
until the peel is transulent…"
"Transulent?"
Transulent and soft like see-through-ey.
-I've got a question.
-[Chigs] Go ahead.
Do people tell you you look like someone?
Er, well, who do you think I look like?
[Matt] I said a young Robert De Niro.
What? I'll take that.
Someone else said a young Andy Garcia.
-Okay.
-Someone else said a young Peter Andre.
[chuckling] No, no way.
-No? Not taking that?
-Not taking that one, no.
No offence, Peter, if you're watching.
He's not watching, he's in the gym.
Bakers, you have four minutes
plus six minutes
plus six minutes plus four minutes
plus four minutes plus six minutes.
Lovely. Clear as mud.
Oh, 30 minutes.
Still looks really wet in the middle,
but I think that's the point.
I think that's 'cause
it's supposed to take ages.
No, needs loads of time still.
It's very gooey. I'll give it more time.
Another 15.
I'm gonna get the butter going.
Instructions just says, "make the butter."
Because we make butter
all the time, don't we?
[Tom] I'm weighing out my double cream.
I'll chuck that into a stand mixer.
Whisk it up, and if you over-whisk it,
it'll eventually form butter.
Right. Beat.
-[mixer whirring]
-Oh, my God, that's going in my eye.
I've just got to, like, squeeze it.
[George] Quite therapeutic, actually.
I'm just hoping when I open this muslin
that it resembles butter.
It looks like it. It smells like it.
-That's butter.
-"Chill." Sounds good.
-Bakers, you've got ten minutes left.
-Ow, my ears.
-You burst them.
-[yelling] Sorry!
That's better.
[chuckling] See if it's ready.
[Freya] I might just give it
a few more minutes.
This is nerve-wracking, isn't it?
[sighs] I don't know. Painful.
-[timer beeps]
-Right.
Looking all right.
Probably five more minutes.
[sighs]
No, I'll maybe leave it
a little bit more.
Will I? Unsure.
-[Chigs] Still got a real bad wobble.
-I reckon that's done.
-Okay, that's it. Coming out.
-The cake is on the move.
It looks fine.
Scrumptious. So I think it's just right.
Either it's done or it'll have to do.
[whimpering]
It's this really dense cake.
Come out totally clear.
Not totally clear.
Mine looks a bit doughy, innit?
Bakers, you have one minute left.
-My God.
-[Freya] Just letting it glaze up.
-[George] Can't have a dry bottom.
-Oh, hot, hot, hot.
I've got to somehow get
attractive orange on top.
Just need to put the butter on.
-More shebang, honestly.
-[Amanda] This is a nightmare.
[Maggie] It's really quite pretty.
Bakers, your time is up.
If malt loaf is supposed to have
a split in it, then it's perfect.
I hope it's not raw in the middle.
Well, you just don't know.
[George and Maggie] Who knows?
-[George] They could say it's overbaked.
-It looks fantastic.
I hope it's worked out this time
Please bring your malt loaves
down to the gingham table
and place them behind your photograph.
[Maggie] Off you go.
I don't want to crash into anybody.
I'm coming. Where's my ugly mug?
[Freya] Oh, I'm first. What a nightmare.
Oh, your peel looks really nice.
Look at mine. Mine's still wet.
-[Jürgen] I need the toilet.
-[Maggie laughing]
[Matt] Prue and Paul are expecting
deliciously rich and moist malt loaves
served with freshly made salted butter.
And they'll have no idea whose is whose.
[Chigs breathes nervously]
-All right, let's start.
-After you.
[Paul] The crystallisation on this
looks pretty good.
Nice and even, aren't they?
[knife sawing]
-Distribution's good.
-Yeah, that's looks lovely.
[Paul] Yeah, it feels good.
-The butter's nice, don't you think?
-[Prue] Yeah.
[giggling] That's so delicious.
It's sticky and it's got
that characteristic chew.
And it's well-balanced
with the fruit as well.
-[Prue] Now, this one looks very small.
-Let's have a look inside.
It's probably going to be
a bit tough, I think.
[Paul] The fruit distribution is there.
-It's just a bit bread-like.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-This one has beautiful topping on it.
-[Paul] Yeah.
[Prue] It's not very evenly distributed.
It's in lumps.
[Paul] There's almost too much fruit,
and not much of the malt loaf.
-I quite like this.
-[Prue] I do, too.
[Paul] It's got
a nice distribution inside.
[Prue] Hmm, this butter's not too salty.
[Paul] It's got
a bit of a chew to that one.
[Prue] That's lovely.
[Paul] Moving on to number five,
it's got a good height.
It's not too domed.
That's got good texture,
but a little bit of tension in it as well,
which I like.
Moving on, quite a strong colour on there.
-[Prue] Lots of fruit.
-[Paul] Yeah.
That's very short.
I think that's probably been
slightly over-baked.
[Prue] It's quite a pale colour,
but I think it's properly cooked.
There's a bit of flour
not quite distributed evenly.
-[Paul] Hmm.
-Got a nice, chewy edge to it.
It's sort of there. It nearly is.
This has got a lot of candied peel on top.
I like that.
-[Prue] I like that, too.
-[Paul] Hmm. Nice colour.
Nice bit of tension in that one.
[Prue] That's excellent.
It's got lots of fruit,
it's got a malty taste.
It's got lovely tension.
-Very good.
-[Paul] Nice colour all the way round.
The flavour's good, but on the second bite
it feels quite bready again.
-Okay.
-[Prue] This looks a bit small.
[Paul] And it's a little doughy there.
That's raw.
You can tell by the colour,
how light it is.
-Mmm, I think it's slightly underdone,
-[Prue] Definitely.
[Paul] Quite pale, but decent.
I like that look.
Good blend of fruit.
[Prue] Probably needed longer in the oven
because it's sticking to
every bit of my mouth.
You'll have to take your teeth out
and clean them later.
-[all chucking]
-[whispering] God, she slapped him.
[Paul] Okay.
It's quite a strong colour, which I like.
[Prue] Lots of little flour pockets.
Whoever did this,
you need to mix it more evenly.
[Noel] Prue and Paul will now
rank the malt loaves
from the worst to the best.
In 12th spot, we have… This one.
Amanda. There's loads and loads of
flour pockets in there.
In 11th place, we have this one. Chigs.
It was under-baked and squishy.
In tenth spot, we have this one.
Not sure, Giuseppe,
what happened with the fruit distribution.
They're all in clumps.
[Noel] Jairzeno is ninth,
Crystelle eighth, seventh Rochica.
Jürgen is sixth, Tom is fifth,
Lizzie is fourth, and George is third.
In second, we have…
-This one.
-Me. [chuckling]
Freya, that's a nice loaf.
Ah, thank you.
The only reason why you're not in first
is because number one was better.
[chuckling] And that means
that this is number one.
[all cheering and applauding]
Well done, Maggie. It's a beautiful loaf.
I won't say
you're anything like as old as me,
but you're getting a little bit older
than some of these,
and you could make the perfect malt loaf.
-Well done.
-[chuckling] Thank you very much.
When they went down the numbers,
I kept thinking,
"They just missed me out."
And then it went down and down,
and then there I was.
You know what I'm going to do now?
So, erm, yes, I'm… [chuckling]
I'm terribly pleased.
[Freya] Really pleased.
I thought it was quite ironic
that she was saying
that this is a challenge for old people
and I was the youngest.
So that was quite exciting.
Not great.
I don't think that went that well.
I'm going to throw all the flour
out of my house when I get home.
I'm never going to bake with flour again.
[Noel] Just one challenge remains
before we crown this year's
first Star Baker
and reveal who will have to
leave the tent.
Well, kids, another day, another bubble.
[both] We're back in the bubble.
I do think they've settled in pretty easy.
Overall, I've been really impressed
with the bakers.
The only person that's in
a little bit of trouble would be Amanda.
She has to have a good day today.
[Noel] Tom didn't have a good Signature.
[Paul] George likewise.
A terrible Signature.
I think up at the top,
Giuseppe has to be with that Signature,
'cause it was so good.
Jurgen's done really well.
And actually, I think Maggie… Sorry, Prue.
-Er, Maggie.
-[Noel] Maggie/Prue.
-Will this be a running joke for ten days?
-Yes. Yes.
Sorry, Maggie… Prue.
I'm beginning to hope Maggie goes out
just to get rid of this joke.
[Paul and Noel laughing]
Good luck, everybody.
Good morning, bakers,
welcome back to the tent.
Are you excited
for your first-ever Showstopper?
[all] Yes.
I can't hear you. Are you excited
for your first-ever Showstopper?
-[all, louder] Yes.
-No, I can't hear you.
-I've got an inner ear infection.
-[all chuckling]
It's actually quite painful.
Now today, Prue and Paul
would love you to make
an awe-inspiring
antigravity illusion cake.
Your vertically-sculpted cakes
must appear to defy gravity.
And should be decorated in a way
that represents a precious memory.
You've got four hours to defy gravity.
On your marks…
-[sing-song] Get set…
-Bake!
I've got something to prove
after the Signature yesterday.
And I really want this to go well.
I'm rocking and rolling.
There's no room for error today.
The whole point of an antigravity cake
is a top-heavy cake
that looks like it's falling or cascading.
They've really got to think
of the framework
to build the antigravity cake onto.
We want to look at these cakes
and think, "How did they do that?"
"How can that still be standing?"
But as always,
it has to be a delicious cake,
and it mustn't be style over substance.
So, as usual, it's difficult. [laughs]
-[Paul] Morning, Chigs.
-[Chigs] Morning.
-How are you all?
-Right, good.
Tell us all about your antigravity cake.
My antigravity cake is called
"Where it all Began."
You probably already know that
I've only been baking
for a short period of time.
Just goes to show,
it's not that difficult.
-[Chigs] No--
-It's not difficult.
-Well, we'll see.
-Oh, my God.
-[all laughing]
-We'll see, yeah, we'll see.
[Noel] Chigs is attempting a baking scene
where a gravity-defying jug
will pour chocolate
into a bowl
made from delicate chocolate sponge
with peanut butter
and chocolate buttercream.
-The jug is actually cake as well.
-It's got cake in it.
-And how's it all going to be elevated?
-Um…
[Noel] With magic?
[all chuckling]
[Matt] Also relying
on a sprinkling of magic is Giuseppe.
My antigravity cake is going to be
Jack and the Beanstalk.
'Cause it's a story
that I read to the kids at night.
[Matt] A fondant beanstalk will hold
his cloud-shaped chocolate cake aloft
in a spectacular fairy-tale scene
dedicated to his three young boys.
They don't know I'm here just yet,
and I was practising this
this last week, yeah?
And my eldest went,
"Papa, this cake is really good."
"It would look good even on Bake Off."
And I'm like,
"Yeah, hold on to that thought."
I love it. Oh, my God, that's amazing.
When are you gonna tell 'em?
-Well, I'd like--
-Not at all?
-And then just go, "Hey, watch this."
-"Look who's on TV."
Ah! I want to be there when that happens.
That's the best thing ever.
[Noel] Giuseppe's not the only baker
inspired by a little bedtime reading.
I'm making a lamp and a book.
The first book I read in English
from cover to cover.
[Matt] What book?
-Thomas More's Utopia.
-Light reading.
[Noel] Orange chiffon sponge,
a honey buttercream with rose
and a pistachio praline
will form his weighty tome
and his precisely-engineered
childhood bedside lamp.
I'm using spanners, yes.
They have been through the dishwasher.
[chuckles]
I'm a bit of a DIY person.
[Matt] Avoiding collapse won't be easy.
It is difficult 'cause you
want a stable but tasty cake.
[Matt] A delicate sponge could fall apart
as it tries to defy the pull of gravity.
[Jairzeno] Hopefully,
the cake will be like clouds.
[Matt] But any denser,
and it won't be pleasant to eat.
[George] Well, I think
there is some density to it.
Forgotten how many eggs I put in.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight.
No. [counting softly]
I keep losing count.
[Matt] If he can get
his measurements right,
George's sponges will become
a backgammon board
and suspended coffee cup in mid flow.
When I'm on holiday in Cyprus
and you walk through the villages,
you see little Greek old men
playing backgammon.
How are you going to
hold up the coffee pot?
I've built a platform
where the coffee pot will sit,
and the coffee
will pour down the threaded rod.
-Yeah.
-I just hope it stands.
-Fingers crossed.
-So do we. [chuckles]
[Noel] Rather than sunny Cyprus,
Maggie is off on a staycation.
[Maggie] I come from a beachy area
and I'm making an ice-cream cornet.
[Matt] Oh, lovely!
When you go to the beach,
what ice cream do you like best?
-Mint choc chip. Are you doing it?
-Oh, no.
-No?
No, no, no.
Why would you eat toothpaste
in an ice cream?
Oh, controversial!
[Noel] Maggie will recreate her favourite
raspberry ripple ice cream,
complete with a suspended
bag of sprinkles,
which she hopes
will impress Paul and Prue.
[Maggie] You've missed my ears.
Hello, Prue. You doing all right?
How're things going today?
You all right? Is it weird being here?
[both laughing]
Thank you, Maggie. Erm…
-That wasn't my idea or yours, I dare say.
-No, I know.
-[laughing]
-He's so naughty.
-Shoo!
-[all laughing]
You're just trying to make me
squash my raspberries.
Good luck in there.
[Noel] Unless they get their cakes baked
as soon as possible…
[Crystelle] Please be good to me.
…the bakers won't have enough time
to pull off their
gravity-defying constructions.
And the more sponges
they need to stack and carve…
Loads of cake. Loads of cake.
…the more complicated,
the engineering becomes.
[Jürgen] The lamp part,
I'll put white fondant there,
and then I'll put this on top
and then I'll build the cake up.
So it's going to be six layers of cake
all stacked on top of each other,
and then sort of V-shaped
bouquet of flowers with all the stems.
It's a bit of a monster.
[Matt] On top of moulded puffed rice
and marshmallow,
Crystelle will stack cinnamon sponges
with Italian meringue buttercream
and roasted pecans.
All decorated to look like
a bouquet of flowers.
I'm dedicating it to my auntie.
She actually used to do a lot of
flower arranging back in the day.
Also, she used to bake a lot.
So I thought if I go out in week one,
I want to dedicate
at least one bake to her.
So it's not an antigravity cake,
it's an "auntie-gravity" cake.
-Yeah! Oh, nice one! Clever.
-See you later, guys.
[all laughing]
Flowers are my favourite thing.
My mum loves flowers as well.
So it's kind of just
the perfect theme, really.
[Noel] Freya's all-vegan floral scene
will feature chocolate sponges
filled with a kirsch cream and cherry jam,
all decorated with
dozens of hand-piped buttercream flowers.
Honestly, when I first
made this chocolate cake,
I thought it was the best
chocolate cake that I'd had.
I don't think you'd know it was vegan.
But I'd eat cake off the floor, so…
I feel I'm probably not
the best judge of that, really.
Bakers, you are halfway through
your antigravity challenge!
Ooh.
-Let's get this baby out.
-Yeah, they're done.
-That's beautiful.
-All they have to do is cool down.
Hot, hot, hot, hot, hot.
[Matt] With the last of their sponges
out of the oven…
Oh. That'll do. I'm happy with that.
…the bakers need to use every minute
to perfect their decorative elements.
I want to let my cakes chill
for as long as possible
which is why I'm doing
all my decoration now.
So this is my sweetie bag.
[Amanda] See if we can get a dolphin.
My cake is going to look
like a wave hitting a rock,
and I'll have a couple of dolphins
coming out of it.
[Matt] Inspired by a trip to Florida,
Amanda's dolphins will emerge
from a towering wave
of lemon and elderflower sponge.
You need a good day today, don't you?
-I do need a good day today.
-Have you practised it?
-I've made about four of these.
-And they didn't collapse?
Erm, one of them did collapse.
The next two were perfect.
Never say that the practice
-looked weird to these two.
-[Amanda] The first one collapsed.
The others didn't collapse.
[Freya] I'm just going to start building.
[Noel] To defy gravity, most of the bakers
will have to carefully lay
a delicate sponge and filling
onto precarious, custom-made structures.
-[Jürgen] This is all exciting now.
-I feel sick.
[Noel] But Jairzeno plans to
take an even bigger risk.
I'm gonna cut the sponge
and roll it up like a cylinder.
[Noel] He'll attempt to stack guava,
lime and chili Swiss rolls,
with a suspended paint can
pouring technicolour shards of chocolate
to celebrate his passion
for colourful bakes.
It should be sturdy enough, yes.
And the buttercream will help,
it will kinda reinforce it like cement.
It won't taste like cement.
[Matt] With every additional layer
of sponge and filling…
I have to thread the screws
all the way down.
…the showstoppers get heavier.
[Rochica] Er…
I just want to get
as much flavour in here as possible.
[Matt] And defying gravity
gets harder and harder.
[sighs]
But Jairzeno has yet to leave the ground.
[Jairzeno] I am struggling, er…
I think the buttercream is a bit too soft.
Right, this isn't quite…
Oops.
No, no, no.
[sighs]
Bakers, you have one hour left
for your antigravity illusion cake.
Jairzeno's showstopper
doesn't look like it will defy gravity
any time soon.
Right.
I'll put the thing in the fridge to chill.
Gonna try and get
the main cake to stand up.
[Noel] And he's not
the only one struggling.
[gasps] My cake's completely
split down the middle
and the bottom layer has broken.
[Noel] Rochica will
have to repair a giant apple
made from a caramel
and spiced apple sponge,
to be able to hang it from a puffed rice
and marshmallow tree,
inspired by her uncle's garden.
[Rochica] It's really fragile,
so I'm gonna ice it
and then just get it in the freezer.
Oh, I'm so stressed out.
It's all right. Just, you know…
-Breathe.
-You'll be fine.
My dad told me to… [inhales deeply]
-Breathe in…
-[both exhale]
-I feel better. Breathing in and out.
-Did it feel better?
-Yeah?
-Your dad knows.
-He's got some skills.
-My parents are so wisdomous.
-[laughs] "Wisdomous"?
-Is that a word?
That's a new word, "wisdomous."
[Matt] Lizzie has also had the benefit
of some fatherly wisdom.
[Paul] What are you using to build it?
Me dad's gone a bit crazy
with the super glue and a chopping board.
[Matt] Her dad Andy
had built the base for a cake jug
that will pour cream into
a peach and vanilla bowl-shaped cake
in honour of their nana's
tinned peaches and cream pudding.
[Prue] And have you practiced it
with this armature?
-[Lizzie] Yeah.
-And it worked?
It was horrific, so…
[Noel laughs]
You can tell it's leaning.
You've really thrown
your own dad under the bus here.
Well, I've got to throw someone under it
as long as it's not me, isn't it?
[Chigs] This is the jug.
[Matt] Most of the bakers
still have to complete smaller,
even more fragile cakes to suspend.
[Jürgen] The lamp is nearing completion.
It's stressful, man.
This is gonna be
a coffee pot that will sit here.
[Matt] It's a hazardous process…
It's like a jug pouring
cake batter into a big bowl,
with splashes coming out of it.
…that Tom has chosen to avoid.
So I'm actually using dowels for my cakes.
You know we want an antigravity cake.
-Yes.
-Do you think it qualifies?
I'm hoping it's enough.
It does lean quite significantly.
[Noel] Tom plans to use
lemon and almond sponges
to construct a teetering,
triple-tiered concert hall
to celebrate his love of classical music,
complete with cannon
for the "1812 Overture."
We must look at it and think,
"My goodness, how does that stand up?"
Okay, I'll see what I can do.
It's a bit late in the day.
That's the problem now, isn't it?
I've designed it.
-Good luck, Tom.
-[laughs]
Bakers, you have half an hour left!
Oh, my God.
I don't think I'll be able to decorate it.
There won't a paint pot at the top
with the colours falling out, no.
Because it's not even standing up.
[Noel] Whilst Jairzeno has been forced
to abandon his plans…
[Jürgen] That's perfect.
[Noel] …the rest of the bakers face
the nerve-wracking task
of seeing theirs through.
[Freya] Oh, this is
a bit stressful, isn't it?
[Crystelle] God, it's so silent in here.
I do like painting.
I'm not sure I like it
so much at the moment.
-I'm horrendous at doing neat finishes.
-Paul's gonna love you.
Don't look into his eyes, all right?
-I'm going to stare him down.
-[chuckling] Don't stare Paul down.
You will not win that battle.
If it falls,
then it can be a fallen apple.
So now I'm going to put…
that…there.
-Stay there.
-[grunts softly]
[Lizzie] Slipping a bit.
[Maggie] This looks as though
I'm doing nothing.
But I'm waiting
for the white chocolate to set.
And I can't move.
[Freya] Oh, hell.
Mine is wobbling so bad.
I think this has taken a year off my life.
So this is just having
something to present.
Hopefully it'll stand up.
I'm so scared it's going to fall.
Oh. [squeals and chuckles]
I think I'm done, you know.
-In this show?
-[chuckling] Yeah.
[Amanda] Oh, my God, I can't breathe.
Ooh.
[Jürgen] How much time do we have left?
One minute left.
Come on, man.
Chigs, do you think you can help me
move it up onto there?
[Jürgen] The book needs pages.
-I don't know if it'll fall off.
-Don't say that.
Dearie me.
[Tom] Wonder if I could
spell "sorry" in cannonballs?
[exclaims] Are we… are we on?
-Let's put it flat and then slide.
-Slide.
Oh, what a breeze.
I usually quite like improvising.
Not so much today.
Bakers, your time is up.
Step away from your bakes.
Gladly. [exhales]
[chuckles]
Well done, Jürgen.
Well done, my friend.
[Lizzie] George, how you feeling?
I've completely rushed it.
Oh, have you seen some of mine?
Dodge as.
Giuseppe, it looks a ten out of ten.
Giuseppe, you got some skill, dude, man.
[Giuseppe] Thank you.
[Matt] It's judgment time
for the antigravity illusion cakes.
Chigs, would you like to
bring your cake up here?
-Matt, could you help me?
-[Matt] I'll give you a hand.
[Chigs chuckles]
-[Matt] Ready?
-[Chigs] Yeah.
-To me…
-[both] To you.
-To you.
-[Matt] To me…
-[Chigs] To you.
Just cuppin' the cup.
-There you go.
-It's gonna break.
It's gonna break. I'm gonna step back now.
-Watch it…
-[all exclaim]
Well, it was antigravity before,
but I dunno what it is now. [laughs]
-When I say antigravity…
-It's not much anymore.
[Paul] But I like the bowl. It's got a bit
of movement in it, which I quite like.
-So it's chocolate fudge?
-Yes.
[Prue] The layers are good.
[Chigs] It's got a chocolate and peanut
butter buttercream around it as well.
[Prue] I think it's delicious.
I also like the texture.
Beautifully moist.
The sponge is delicious,
and so is the peanut butter
buttercream as well.
You're a very good baker.
Maybe your engineering skills
need honing a little.
-It could be neater.
-I agree.
[Prue] I'm sure you can paint better.
I can certainly paint
better than that. Absolutely.
[Paul] Let's have a look.
I think you've got some nice flavours,
but you need to concentrate
more on the finesse.
Yeah.
I feel it looks more like a plant pot
than an ice cream.
It's gone from a cornet to a tub.
-Your Victoria sandwich is delicious.
-Thank you.
[Paul] But there's not
much flavour in there.
I was expecting something
very different to this.
very different to that.
It's quite, erm, mortifying, actually.
I think the sponge is perfect.
I love the flavour.
The taste of that guava, I love it.
All the elements are there,
but there's nothing else.
[Prue] Love the little dolphins,
and I think it's beautifully done.
You've certainly got
the gravity-defying bit.
I'm not totally convinced it does,
because that's just
the Rice Krispies bit, isn't it?
-Yeah.
-[Paul] But I love the colour of it.
The concept of it.
This is lemon drizzle.
Yeah, lemon and elderflower.
I think your sponges
are slightly over-baked.
They're a little bit too dry.
Did you use an extract with that one?
I used, erm, elderflower liqueur.
There's quite a lot in there.
I think there's a touch too much.
-It's quite powerful.
-[Paul] It burns, doesn't it?
Thank you very much.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
-Stayed up.
-It stayed up.
Lizzie, would you like to bring up
your showstopper, please?
-[Amanda gasps]
-[Tom] Oh, no!
-[Noel] Whoops.
-[Freya] Oh, my gosh.
[chuckles] God. Sorry.
[Noel] Paul slowly sabotaged you.
[all laugh]
It's a bit simplistic,
but it does defy gravity.
But the side of it
is a real mess, isn't it?
-It may taste fantastic yet.
-Let's hope so.
I could happily eat a bowl of that.
Oh.
I think your flavour's nice.
Just neaten up
your work a little bit more.
I think those flowers look incredible.
You spent some time on that.
It's chocolate sponge,
Kirsch buttercream,
then a little bit of cherry jam as well.
-Hmm. I think that's lovely.
-Ah, awesome.
It's very boozy.
I think it's delicious, you have got
a nice chocolatey flavour there.
Nice kick from the alcohol as well.
You've got some beautiful textures
running through there. And it's vegan.
I think you've done a great job.
-Really, really good job.
-Oh, thank you so much.
I really appreciate it.
[Paul] It's very elegant.
I think the pipe work is beautifully done.
Between you and Freya, you've done
an amazing job with these flowers.
[Prue] You certainly hit
the gravity-defying
because you cannot believe
that such a heavy cake
is not going to fall over.
And just remind us about what the cake is.
It's a cinnamon sponge with a vanilla
Italian meringue buttercream
and roasted pecans.
[Prue] Mmm. That's good.
[chuckles] I got exactly that.
-Exactly as you said it.
-[sighs in relief]
It's absolutely
beautifully flavoured. Lovely.
[Paul] The cinnamon hit
is very powerful, but it works
because you balance that out
with the vanilla as well.
The nuts leave
that little bit of texture as well.
You created something
that is actually quite remarkable.
-I absolutely agree.
-Thank you so much.
-Well done.
-It really is lovely.
He doesn't say "remarkable" very often,
unless he's talking about himself.
-[all laughing]
-[sighs in relief]
-Oh, well done, Crystelle.
-[softly] Well done.
You definitely got
the excitement in there.
[Paul] You probably could have done
with a little bit more detail.
[Prue] Look at that,
apple and caramel. How lovely.
-Oh, your flavours are lovely.
-Thank you.
The antigravity is certainly there.
It needs to be a little bit more honed.
Yeah.
I have to say I'm a bit disappointed
about the gravity-defying bit.
It was a bit of a disaster, to be honest.
It's a lemon and almond cake.
-It's rather more almond than lemon.
-Yeah.
Although there is a little bit of a lean,
there's no way that's defying gravity.
Fair enough.
It is simply beautiful,
and it's certainly gravity-defying,
especially as you've got
the cloud off-centre.
So that really makes you feel
this should fall over.
[Paul] It's a great kids' cake.
Let's have a look.
[exhales]
The inside of the cake
is like an inside sponge
with a raspberry jam
and a cream cheese buttercream.
-The sponge is a little dry.
-Okay.
Good flavour though. Really good.
[Paul] Flavour's superb.
Because of the size of the cake,
I would've put two layers in there.
Right. Okay.
[Prue] It's true. If you'd had three
layers of sponge and a bit more filling,
you wouldn't have noticed
the dryness so much.
It's a pity, because you've
absolutely nailed the illusion bit.
-I think it's so elegant, don't you?
-Yeah.
It's so clean and simple,
but beautifully done.
-[Paul] Is the cake in this?
-Yes.
There is. So, this is the rod support.
And then you…
With a plinth and you
put the cake on that?
Er, yes, and I've got
two more supporting discs inside.
It's well-engineered.
[Jürgen] The cake is an orange
chiffon sponge with honey buttercream
with a hint of rose and pistachio praline.
I'm glad you said hint,
because rose can be so strong.
Yes.
You've got the rose absolutely right.
You can hardly taste it, but it's there.
It's beautiful because the chiffon's
quite a light sponge.
Then you've got texture
coming from the nuts
which gives you a beautiful flavour.
And in the background,
you've got this rose floating through.
So technically,
the way you baked it is perfect.
You could become the flavour king.
-Very, very good.
-Thank you very much.
-[Crystelle whispers] Well done.
-[Freya] Well done, so good.
Smashed it. Smashed it.
[sighs in relief]
[laughs]
[Jürgen] It's still sinking in.
I can't believe it.
I'm a very happy Jürgen indeed.
I really thought my cake was raw,
and they cut it,
and I was like, "Oh, my God, it's raw."
And it wasn't!
Oh, blimey. It's the worst bake
I've ever done. That was pretty bad.
[Jairzeno] To be honest,
I expect to go home
because it doesn't even have
an antigravity element.
[George] I just think week one's nerves
just got the better of me.
I hope I don't go, but I think I might be,
you know, going home.
I absolutely want to stay.
Of course I want to stay.
What a great bunch of people.
I've never been able to sit
and talk to someone in detail about cake
and not bore the pants off them. [laughs]
[bees buzzing]
[Noel] Prue and Paul
have made their decision.
-I don't wanna get emotional.
-No, come on.
[Noel] Well done, bakers.
Luckily I've got the amazing job
of announcing the first Star Baker.
And the Star Baker this week is…
Jürgen.
Well, I have a job that no one wants,
and it's a real shame
because we've only just met
and we're already losing one of the gang.
I'm sorry to say that
the first person to be leaving us is…
-Tom.
-Absolutely. That's fair enough.
[laughs]
Did not go to plan at all. [laughs]
Oh, dear. Hey. Thank you very much.
I always have been harder on myself
than I really should be,
but I definitely am proud of myself,
and I never say that.
So that must mean quite a bit.
I'll mostly miss spending time
with all the lovely bakers.
They're really talented
and absolutely lovely people.
I'm so gonna miss
hanging out with them every day.
-[Prue] You see, you can do it, can't you?
-[Amanda] Thank you so much.
I was absolutely thinking
I was gonna go first,
but I'm really sad for Tom,
he's such a gentleman. I love him.
He's such a nice man.
George, lift it up a bit.
I'm in shock.
I'm just so pleased that the judges
have seen something in my baking,
and I'm here for another week.
-[Prue and Paul] Well done, Jürgen.
-Thank you. Thank you very much.
-[Prue] So good. Really.
-[Jürgen] Thank you. Thank you.
It is incredible. It is incredible.
Er, before, I thought, "Star Baker, hmm,
doesn't matter too much."
But I feel so…
Whoo! [laughs]
-[Crystelle] Well done!
-[indistinct chatter]
I'm so excited, yes.
[line ringing]
Nobody at home?
[pleasant music playing]